README.md, before:

[![Docker Hub](http://img.shields.io/badge/docker-hub-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/hopsoft/graphite-statsd/)
[![Gratipay](http://img.shields.io/badge/gratipay-contribute-009bef.svg?style=flat)](https://gratipay.com/hopsoft/)

# Docker Image for Graphite & Statsd

## Get Graphite & Statsd running instantly

Graphite & Statsd can be complex to setup.
This image will have you running & collecting stats in just a few minutes.

## Quick Start

```sh
sudo docker run -d \
  --name graphite \
  -p 80:80 \
  -p 2003:2003 \
  -p 8125:8125/udp \
  hopsoft/graphite-statsd
```

This starts a Docker container named: **graphite**

That's it, you're done ... almost.

### Includes the following components

* [Nginx](http://nginx.org/) - reverse proxies the graphite dashboard
* [Graphite](http://graphite.readthedocs.org/en/latest/) - front-end dashboard
* [Carbon](http://graphite.readthedocs.org/en/latest/carbon-daemons.html) - back-end
* [Statsd](https://github.com/etsy/statsd/wiki) - UDP based back-end proxy

### Mapped Ports

| Host | Container | Service |
| ---- | --------- | ------- |
|   80 |        80 | nginx   |
| 2003 |      2003 | carbon  |
| 8125 |      8125 | statsd  |

### Mounted Volumes

| Host              | Container                  | Notes                           |
| ----------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| DOCKER ASSIGNED   | /opt/graphite              | graphite config & stats storage |
| DOCKER ASSIGNED   | /etc/nginx                 | nginx config                    |
| DOCKER ASSIGNED   | /opt/statsd                | statsd config                   |
| DOCKER ASSIGNED   | /etc/logrotate.d           | logrotate config                |
| DOCKER ASSIGNED   | /var/log                   | log files                       |

### Base Image

Built using [Phusion's base image](https://github.com/phusion/baseimage-docker).

* All Graphite related processes are run as daemons & monitored with [runit](http://smarden.org/runit/).
* Includes additional services such as logrotate.

## Start Using Graphite & Statsd

### Send Some Stats

Let's fake some stats with a random counter to prove things are working.

```sh
while true
do
  echo -n "example.statsd.counter.changed:$(((RANDOM % 10) + 1))|c" | nc -w 1 -u localhost 8125
done
<CTL-C>
```

### Visualize the Data

Open Graphite in a browser at [http://localhost/dashboard](http://localhost/dashboard).

## Secure the Django Admin

Update the default Django admin user account. _The default is insecure._

  * username: root
  * password: root
  * email: root.graphite@mailinator.com

First login at: [http://localhost/account/login](http://localhost/account/login)
Then update the root user's profile at: [http://localhost/admin/auth/user/1/](http://localhost/admin/auth/user/1/)

## Change the Configuration

Read up on Graphite's [post-install tasks](https://graphite.readthedocs.org/en/latest/install.html#post-install-tasks).
Focus on the [storage-schemas.conf](https://graphite.readthedocs.org/en/latest/config-carbon.html#storage-schemas-conf)

1. Stop the container `docker stop graphite`.
1. Find the configuration files on the host by inspecting the container `docker inspect graphite`.
1. Update the desired config files.
1. Restart the container `docker start graphite`.

**Note**: If you change settings in `/opt/graphite/conf/storage-schemas.conf`
be sure to delete the old whisper files under `/opt/graphite/storage/whisper/`.

---

**Important:** Ensure your Statsd flush interval is at least as long as the highest-resolution retention.
For example, if `/opt/statsd/config.js` looks like this.

```
flushInterval: 10000
```

Ensure that `storage-schemas.conf` retentions are no finer grained than 10 seconds.

```
[all]
pattern = .*
retentions = 5s:12h # WRONG
retentions = 10s:12h # OK
retentions = 60s:12h # OK
```

## A Note on Disk Space

If running this image on cloud infrastructure such as AWS,
you should consider mounting `/opt/graphite` & `/var/log` on a larger volume.

1. Configure the host to mount a large EBS volume.
1. Specify the volume mounts when starting the container.

    ```
    sudo docker run -d \
      --name graphite \
      -v /path/to/ebs/graphite:/opt/graphite \
      -v /path/to/ebs/log:/var/log \
      -p 80:80 \
      -p 2003:2003 \
      -p 8125:8125/udp \
      hopsoft/graphite-statsd
    ```

## Additional Reading

* [Introduction to Docker](http://docs.docker.io/#introduction)
* [Official Statsd Documentation](https://github.com/etsy/statsd/)
* [Practical Guide to StatsD/Graphite Monitoring](http://matt.aimonetti.net/posts/2013/06/26/practical-guide-to-graphite-monitoring/)
* [Configuring Graphite for StatsD](https://github.com/etsy/statsd/blob/master/docs/graphite.md)

## Contributors

Build the image yourself.

### OSX

1. `git clone https://github.com/hopsoft/docker-graphite-statsd.git`
1. `cd docker-graphite-statsd`
1. `vagrant up`
1. `vagrant ssh`
1. `sudo docker build -t hopsoft/graphite-statsd /vagrant`

**Note**: Pay attention to the forwarded ports in the [Vagrantfile](https://github.com/hopsoft/docker-graphite-statsd/blob/master/Vagrantfile).

### Linux

1. `git clone https://github.com/hopsoft/docker-graphite-statsd.git`
1. `sudo docker build -t hopsoft/graphite-statsd ./docker-graphite-statsd`

Commit message:

Added instructions on how to restart the container on reboot

README.md, after:

[![Docker Hub](http://img.shields.io/badge/docker-hub-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/hopsoft/graphite-statsd/)
[![Gratipay](http://img.shields.io/badge/gratipay-contribute-009bef.svg?style=flat)](https://gratipay.com/hopsoft/)

# Docker Image for Graphite & Statsd

## Get Graphite & Statsd running instantly

Graphite & Statsd can be complex to setup.
This image will have you running & collecting stats in just a few minutes.

## Quick Start

```sh
sudo docker run -d \
  --name graphite \
  -p 80:80 \
  -p 2003:2003 \
  -p 8125:8125/udp \
  hopsoft/graphite-statsd
```

This starts a Docker container named: **graphite**

That's it, you're done ... almost.

### Includes the following components

* [Nginx](http://nginx.org/) - reverse proxies the graphite dashboard
* [Graphite](http://graphite.readthedocs.org/en/latest/) - front-end dashboard
* [Carbon](http://graphite.readthedocs.org/en/latest/carbon-daemons.html) - back-end
* [Statsd](https://github.com/etsy/statsd/wiki) - UDP based back-end proxy

### Mapped Ports

| Host | Container | Service |
| ---- | --------- | ------- |
|   80 |        80 | nginx   |
| 2003 |      2003 | carbon  |
| 8125 |      8125 | statsd  |

### Mounted Volumes

| Host              | Container                  | Notes                           |
| ----------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| DOCKER ASSIGNED   | /opt/graphite              | graphite config & stats storage |
| DOCKER ASSIGNED   | /etc/nginx                 | nginx config                    |
| DOCKER ASSIGNED   | /opt/statsd                | statsd config                   |
| DOCKER ASSIGNED   | /etc/logrotate.d           | logrotate config                |
| DOCKER ASSIGNED   | /var/log                   | log files                       |

### Base Image

Built using [Phusion's base image](https://github.com/phusion/baseimage-docker).

* All Graphite related processes are run as daemons & monitored with [runit](http://smarden.org/runit/).
* Includes additional services such as logrotate.

## Start Using Graphite & Statsd

### Send Some Stats

Let's fake some stats with a random counter to prove things are working.

```sh
while true
do
  echo -n "example.statsd.counter.changed:$(((RANDOM % 10) + 1))|c" | nc -w 1 -u localhost 8125
done
<CTL-C>
```

### Visualize the Data

Open Graphite in a browser at [http://localhost/dashboard](http://localhost/dashboard).

## Secure the Django Admin

Update the default Django admin user account. _The default is insecure._

  * username: root
  * password: root
  * email: root.graphite@mailinator.com

First login at: [http://localhost/account/login](http://localhost/account/login)
Then update the root user's profile at: [http://localhost/admin/auth/user/1/](http://localhost/admin/auth/user/1/)

## Change the Configuration

Read up on Graphite's [post-install tasks](https://graphite.readthedocs.org/en/latest/install.html#post-install-tasks).
Focus on the [storage-schemas.conf](https://graphite.readthedocs.org/en/latest/config-carbon.html#storage-schemas-conf)

1. Stop the container `docker stop graphite`.
1. Find the configuration files on the host by inspecting the container `docker inspect graphite`.
1. Update the desired config files.
1. Restart the container `docker start graphite`.

**Note**: If you change settings in `/opt/graphite/conf/storage-schemas.conf`
be sure to delete the old whisper files under `/opt/graphite/storage/whisper/`.

---

**Important:** Ensure your Statsd flush interval is at least as long as the highest-resolution retention.
For example, if `/opt/statsd/config.js` looks like this.

```
flushInterval: 10000
```

Ensure that `storage-schemas.conf` retentions are no finer grained than 10 seconds.

```
[all]
pattern = .*
retentions = 5s:12h # WRONG
retentions = 10s:12h # OK
retentions = 60s:12h # OK
```

## A Note on Disk Space

If running this image on cloud infrastructure such as AWS,
you should consider mounting `/opt/graphite` & `/var/log` on a larger volume.

1. Configure the host to mount a large EBS volume.
1. Specify the volume mounts when starting the container.

    ```
    sudo docker run -d \
      --name graphite \
      -v /path/to/ebs/graphite:/opt/graphite \
      -v /path/to/ebs/log:/var/log \
      -p 80:80 \
      -p 2003:2003 \
      -p 8125:8125/udp \
      hopsoft/graphite-statsd
    ```

## How to restart the docker container on reboot

(Tested on CentOS 6.6. You will need sudo or root permission)

1. Verify that you have upstart installed (every one has it but its worth double checking). If not "sudo yum install upstart"
2. Create a file called /etc/init/docker-graphite.conf with the following content

    ```
    description "Docker Graphite container"
    author "Me"
    start on startup and started docker
    stop on shutdown
    respawn
    script
      /usr/bin/docker stop graphite
      /usr/bin/docker start -a graphite
    end script
    ```
3. Verify that the container gets started on reboot (by sending some test data and visualizing the data from graphite web UI). 

The step of `/usr/bin/docker stop graphite` is a bit of hack to clean up dead carbon pid files as the shutdown process (on reboot) does not clean up the carbon pid file. 


## Additional Reading

* [Introduction to Docker](http://docs.docker.io/#introduction)
* [Official Statsd Documentation](https://github.com/etsy/statsd/)
* [Practical Guide to StatsD/Graphite Monitoring](http://matt.aimonetti.net/posts/2013/06/26/practical-guide-to-graphite-monitoring/)
* [Configuring Graphite for StatsD](https://github.com/etsy/statsd/blob/master/docs/graphite.md)

## Contributors

Build the image yourself.

### OSX

1. `git clone https://github.com/hopsoft/docker-graphite-statsd.git`
1. `cd docker-graphite-statsd`
1. `vagrant up`
1. `vagrant ssh`
1. `sudo docker build -t hopsoft/graphite-statsd /vagrant`

**Note**: Pay attention to the forwarded ports in the [Vagrantfile](https://github.com/hopsoft/docker-graphite-statsd/blob/master/Vagrantfile).

### Linux

1. `git clone https://github.com/hopsoft/docker-graphite-statsd.git`
1. `sudo docker build -t hopsoft/graphite-statsd ./docker-graphite-statsd`
